Okay. Our assignment was to stand up a
RabbitMQ instance using Docker. And what
I have up on the screen here, is the
official repository for RabbitMQ from
Docker Hub. We want to take a look at
a couple things. So I'm going to come
over here, and there's several tags that
we want to use, and if we just use
RabbitMQ, we are going to get the base
Rabbit image, without the management
console. The assignment was to set
do the management console, so we
definitely want to get that management
console in there, so we can work with
that. And if I come over here... if I
come over here, I'm going to look at the
base image. I have that up in
the first tab here. So you can see this
is a much more robust Docker file, than
what we've seen in the past.
There's a number of things here
that I want to point out. So you can see
that we're doing a run set -x, and then
the slash, and this is a trick, I don't
know if I explained it before, but this
is a trick where you run multiple
commands as one command. This will
create a single layer within that Docker
image. So that's an important trick
as we build out Docker images. So if we
can lump up commands like, that this is
actually pretty beneficial to do. I'm
not going to go through everything
because with this isn't a how to
install RabbitMQ. But this is all the
stuff that they're doing to get that
Rabbit image ready. We can see
down on line 92, that's something I want
to point out too, to you. These are the
port's that RabbitMQ is going to expose.
I'm not a RabbitMQ expert, but when
we're connecting to the queues, we are
going to be using 5671 and 5672. So
those are our very key things that we
are interested in, as Spring Developers,
and then Java developers is bail talk to
this over those ports. That's what our
code will be connecting to. So, those two
ports will need to be exposed, when we
run this. Now this did not include the
Rabbit management
console. In this, we need to specify the
tag. So the 3.6.6 is the latest version
right now. So that...this is a, I am recording
this in February 2017, so imagine you're
going to be watching it well into the
future, so you want to take a look and
make make sure that you're grabbing the
latest sort. This version should work
just fine for you too. But this is a
specific tag. And now, I'm pulling up the
Docker file for the MQ, like toggle
back over there. So this management tag
here, I'm pulling it up in this tab here
on Chrome. And now, we can see that this
Docker file is saying from RabbitMQ, so
that previous Docker file, that is going
to build upon that on a Docker file and
now it's going to add in the Rabbit
management console and exposed to more
ports 15671 15672. Now these two
are important ports to expose. This is
what opens up the console. If I come back
over here, to the official documentation,
I can scroll down and it talks about the
management plugin, which is exactly what
we want and it says that we can access
it on 15672. Now, one
thing that's common, our Java stuff
usually runs on port 8080, and you can
see right here, they're saying to do a
port mapping. So that minus p will take
the localhost 8080, whatever your
localhost is, your dev machine, and
join that to the container port of
15672. So that's a nice
little trick. So you can see there, it's
saying now, you can go to localhost or
the host IP of 8080 and your browser and
get to the management console. So that's
a quick overview of what we need to do
for this assignment. Now, let's come over
here and I've cheated and I have the
command here. I want to go
through this command. So to reiterate
some of the things here. So we have docker run
so we can run it, - d says to run it in the
background. Now a hostname, that gives
the container a host name of guru-rabbit, and I'm going to also do a name some
rabbit. Now that the important part is
the port mapping. So the - p 8080:15672
that maps out the Management
Console and then remember I said there's
two other ports, the 5671 and 5672, that we are going
to use be talking to RabbitMQ. And now, I'm
specifying a tag there. So I have
RabbitMQ management:3-management. So that's going to bring in the
Docker image. So just to reiterate, come
over here, it is going to pull down this
Docker image from Docker Hub. So this is
tagged with that. So let's go back up
here to the top and it's telling us that
these are the tags that are available.
So, if we didn't specify any tag, we'd get
the latest without the management
console but we want the the management
console. So come back over here, and we'll
run those, click outside of that. Now I'm
going to hit enter, and we could see that
saying it's unable to find that
image locally. Now it's going up to
Docker hub and downloading the layers,
that make up that image. You can see
it's going down pulling them. It's just
going to take a minute or two and this
is only going to happen at the first time that
we run it. Now let me demonstrate that
for you here in a second. So see that
things are downloading just fine. We're
almost done. Now, as I downloaded it
and it is running the image, now if I do
docker ps to see running images, you
see I have two images running right now.
One of them is the RabbitMQ and I want
to point out here, remember we're talking
about the the naming of containers,
here's this long guy here, the 3
8e1a, and we can see that this here
is now the container ID. I'm going to
copy that.
Now if I do a docker kill, I'm going to shut
down that. Now that's gone away. And if I
come back here, I'm just sitting up arrow
if you're not familiar with UNIX or
Linux. Now we can see, I got the command
back up. I'm going to hit this again. Oop..
sorry, kind of flipped, so I need to.. I'm
going to give it a quick new name because I
didn't, I didn't remove that other
container and let's call it some-rabbit2. Now we're going to create a new
container and we see that I have a new
hash value here. I know that container
running. I do the docker ps, you can see I
now have a new RabbitMQ container
running. Okay, you can see how easy it was
to get RabbitMQ up and running
out of Docker container. Now I picked out
Rabbit specifically so we could have a
little bit more of a challenging use
case and mapping out the different ports
and a specific tag. So now you can see
how you can pull down different tags and
how things are inherited and you can set
up multiple port mappings. Now we could
get a little bit more robust with Rabbit
and set up some local storage. So I'm
going to give you that opportunity in a
future assignment.